# Knowledge-driven inference for automatic reconstruction of indoor detailed as-built BIMs from laser scanning data

**Authors:** Biao, Yusheng, Fashuai, Yuwei, Yiquan, Zhize
**Journal:** Automation in Construction
**Year:** 2023
**Volume:** 156
**DOI:** 10.1016/j.autcon.2023.105097

## Abstract

Highlights•A room segmentation approach for complex indoor scenes.•Topological relations to preserve the high fidelity of reconstructed BIMs.•An automatic BIM reconstruction framework achieving high performance.•A method combining segmentation optimization and geometric regularization.•An inference transforming prior knowledge to generic constraints and optimization.

## Dataset and benchmark for as-built BIM reconstruction from real-world point cloud

• Dataset and benchmark for as-built BIM reconstruction from real-world point cloud2025, Automation in ConstructionShow abstractAs-built BIM reconstruction plays a significant role in urban renewal and building digitization but currently faces challenges of low efficiency. Scan-to-BIM aims to improve reconstruction efficiency but lacks domain-specific, large-scale datasets and accurate, multi-dimensional benchmark metrics. These deficiencies further impede the evaluation and training of scan-to-BIM methods. To address these challenges, this paper proposes BIMNet, an IFC-based large-scale point cloud to BIM dataset, and a set of metrics that reflect the quality and issues of reconstructed models from both geometric and topological perspectives. Experiments demonstrate that BIMNet enhances the evaluation and training of scan-to-BIM methods during the critical processes of reconstruction and segmentation. This research contributes to the data foundation and metric system for deep-learning based scan-to-BIM methods. In the future, BIMNet will not only facilitate the development of scan-to-BIM but also contribute to the advancement of smart cities and AI-driven technologies beyond scan-to-BIM.

• Development of immersive bridge digital twin platform to facilitate bridge damage assessment and asset model updates2025, Computers in IndustryCitation Excerpt :Following the Scan-to-BIM methodology, the steps of constructing and updating the BIM reality model of the bridge are described below. Step 1: Scanning: The first step of the Scan-to-BIM procedure involves the precise surveying of the bridge using a specialized laser scanner as described in Section 4.4 (Xiong et al., 2023). The laser scan emits laser beams and accurately captures the reflected signals, enabling the accurate determination of distances and spatial coordinates of surface points.Show abstractConventional infrastructure asset management practices have heavily relied on static data collection and suffered from decision lags. Though advanced Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) systems were extensively explored based on multi-functional sensor deployment, asset model updating has not been achieved to facilitate timely and effective decision-making of infrastructure managers due to a lack of system integration. To address this challenge, this study develops the Immersive Bridge Digital Twin Platform (IBDTP) to allow infrastructure managers to automate the SHM processes of bridges and engage them in immersive decision-making processes based on Scan-to-BIM and Augmented Reality (AR) technologies. A novel 3D game engine is proposed as part of IBDTP and was tested using a single-span concrete arch bridge located in Poland. Results show that the measurement data collected and presented in IBDTP improves the infrastructure managers' accessibility to major damage data of the bridge to plan for future interventions. The functions of the IBDTP can be potentially scaled for different types of bridges and critical infrastructure, substantially improving the traditional SHM in terms of data management and 3D structural visualization.

• Automated data-driven method for creating digital building models from dense point clouds and images through semantic segmentation and parametric model fitting2024, Advanced Engineering InformaticsCitation Excerpt :In [14], the authors proposed a supervised region-growing method for segmenting unstructured point clouds using geometric features like surface roughness and curvature. In [15], the authors proposed a Knowledge-driven method that first segments the point cloud into five classes (including ceilings, walls, floors, beams, and clutter) using a surface-growing algorithm. The wall-beam center lines are then extracted to partition the building layout space into individual rooms.Show abstractThis paper proposes an automated method for creating semantic digital building models using dense point clouds and images. The method employs a hybrid bottom-up, top-down approach, integrating artificial intelligence capabilities in scene understanding with domain engineering knowledge to overcome challenges in indoor 3D reconstruction. The pre-trained PointTransformer semantic segmentation model extracts thirteen building objects, where the wall and ceiling segments are utilized in a 3D space parsing algorithm. The parameterized floor plan map is then generated using a data-driven approach, enabling the creation of an extruded volumetric digital model. Additionally, the YOLOV8 object detection network recognizes doors and windows in images derived from projected points of the wall instances. The validation results for six building datasets with different layouts showcase the effectiveness of the proposed model reconstruction algorithm, with a mean error of about 7 cm between the parameters of elements in digital reference models and reconstructed models. This highlights AI’s potential in automating the creation of digital models for the real world.

• Indoor functional subspace division from point clouds based on graph neural network2024, International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and GeoinformationCitation Excerpt :How to divide a story space into multiple single rooms is a research hotspot. The commonly used methods are mainly plane-based (Jung et al., 2018; Wu et al., 2021; Cheng et al., 2021; Fang et al.,2021), volume-based (Cui et al., 2019; Ochmann et al., 2019; Nikoohemat et al., 2020; Xiong et al., 2023), and deep learning-based (Liu et al., 2018; Wang et al., 2018; Tang et al.,2022). Jung et al. (2018) and Cheng et al. (2021) both projected raw data into two dimensions and transformed it into a binary image to extract line primitives.Show abstractIndoor scenes are closely related to human life and contain rich geometric and semantic information. Dividing indoor spaces from data is crucial for multiple applications, such as navigation and digital twins. However, achieving this task is challenging. Traditional indoor space division methods only represent buildings, floors, and rooms to some extent, lacking semantic descriptions of indoor elements and their spatial arrangements. To divide an indoor space more finely, a novel indoor space subdivision method is proposed in this paper. Our method leverages the flexible space subdivision framework (FSS) to categorize indoor space into free navigation subspace, object subspace, and functional subspace. To define functional subspaces, we present a taxonomy for the spatial layout patterns of common indoor elements (like tables, chairs, ceilings, walls, floors, etc.). Then, we introduce scene graphs to represent indoor 3D scenes, where each node represents an indoor element and each edge encodes the spatial relationship between the elements. Finally, a node classification network is proposed to segment indoor scene into subspaces and predicts their (semantic) functions. We select 9 buildings of Matterport3D and 6 areas in S3DIS and merge them to form our dataset for training and testing our method. Experiments yield good results with up to 90.42% accuracy and 85.28% F1-scores in overall space subdivision. Moreover, compared with the various graph node classification networks, our method has achieved the best performance in indoor space subdivisions.

• 3D reconstruction of building interiors based on scan-to-BIM and generative design for as-built building2024, Engineering Construction and Architectural Management

• Development of an immersive digital twin framework to support infrastructure management: a case study of bridge asset health monitoring2024, Proceedings of the International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction
